Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about hashing and coalition
So Marty's hashing hashing is an efficient method to store
and access elements
It's exactly same as index page of a book in
the index page
Every topic is associated with the page number
If we want to look for some topic we can
directly get the page number from the index
Likewise in hashing every value will be associated with a
key
Using this key we can point out the element directly
In this video
We will learn how hashing improves searching performance letters take
an unsalted array of eight elements and perform linear search
What will be the worst case time complexity that is
finding the element 1 23 Since the area is unsalted
we need to traverse the whole area to find the
element 1 23
Here
The area has eight elements and the time complex ary
will be or drop eight
And in general if the area has any elements the
worst case time complex we will be or drove
And now let us take assorted array of eight elements
and perform beina research
Now what will be the worst case time complexity
Here let a search for Element 45
Here we will divide the into two and searched the
key in one half only and ignore the other half
This is done in each step
Status
Find the middle element
First it is 70 and the key 45 is less
than 70
So we need to search in first half
Only now find the middle element again at least 23
And the key 45 is greater than 23
So search in second half only and it is found
here
So in each step we are reducing the search space
into half thatis force
We have any elements then and buy two then and
buy for then and by eight and soul
So we will get the time complexity as order of
lock and two bass two
So if the air is sorted the worst case time
complex Serie is order of log and two bass two
That is
Here it is All draw Flock 82 Bass two
That is odd Raftery
Now the question is can be improved
The time complexity even further can be search and element
In order of one time
The answer is Yes we can
We can do it Using hashing let us take a
hash table of size and and the elements 246 and
eight
The simplest method is placing the key in the exact
area index thatis using the function f x equal to
x so when ex acquitted to f off to is
equal to so place the element to in index to
when X equal to 444 is equal to for PSA
placed the element for in index for when Xs equal
to sex F off six is equal to six sir
Place the elements six in index six and similarly when
x equal to eight f of eight equal to eight
So place the element eight in index eight and if
we want to search the element we can directly find
it using the same method we have f X equal
to X
So if we want to search the Element eight we
have f of eight equal to eight
So searched the Element eight in area index eight and
we have eight here so the search is formed and
if we want to search the elements seven we have
efforts seven equal to seven
And in index seven we don't have the Element seven
so the search is not found
But there is a major drawback in this technic
Let us find what it is
Let us insert the element 100 so 400 equal 201
100 will be placed in the index 100
And just because of this one bigger element we are
wasting so many bytes of data
So this is not a space efficient method
So what can we do We can reduce the space
using the modal Oh operator As we know when we
used more law an operator the output is always in
range of zero to end minus one
For example let us assume N is equal to three
Let us take a number 003 east equal to 01
more tree is equal to 12 more tree is acquitted
to and three more tree is equal to zero for
more tree is equal to one five more tree is
equal to two
If we absorbed the result it will always be in
between 023 minus one which is 0 to 2 so
we can change our method using the model operator so
that it will always provide the index within a range
so we can effectively save the space
The new method will be F o X is equal
to X mode size here
Size indicate the hash table size
Let us understand how we can store and retrieve elements
using this method
Day hash tables of size seven initialise it with minus
one minus
One indicates element is not present or the particular index
is available to insert
Let us understand the insult operation
First we have key is equal to data mode size
If the element to be inserted or the data is
24 were should be inserted
We can apply it here
Key is equal to data mode size status
20 for more seven which is equal to three
So insert 24 at index tree and to insert eight
we have key is equal to eight more seven which
is equal to one so a is inserted at index
one
And to insert Fortin we have key equal to 14
more seven which is equal to zero so 14 is
inserted at index zero So that is how we insert
elements now let us understand how search can be performed
We can perform Modelo size operation on the element to
be searched and we will get a key
Then we can go and cheque there
And if it is there it is present and otherwise
it is not
For example let a search for Element eight
Sochi is equal to eight more seven which is equal
to one
So go and cheque here and we have eight
So the search is found now at a search for
Element 19 Sochi sequel to 19 more seven which is
equal to five
So go and cheque here and here We have minus
one which indicates the element is not present
So the search is not form
Now let us discuss about dilation operation to delayed an
element also we have to first find the key selectors
delete the Element 24
So first find the key and we have key sequel
to 20 for more seven that is equal to three
So go to index tree and change the value to
minus one and the delish in is completed
So that is how we can perform insertion searching and
delish in now what is Coalition in hashing
Let us insert the Element 15 in this stable and
we have Key is equal to a lemon mode size
that is case equal to 15 more seven which is
equal to one
That is the element 15 should be inserted at index
one but index one already has the element A
So here to all more different elements are pointing to
the same index under model of size operation
And this is what is called coalition
So how can we handle this kind of coalition Let
us learn how to avoid a coalition in the next
video
So today we have discussed about hashing which is an
efficient method to perform searching with time complexity or drop
one
We found the space where stage problem and we did
soul with using the mode low operation to get a
key within the range
And we also learned how to perform insertion searching and
dilation and we just had an introduction to coalition
In the next videos we will learn about coalition resolution